Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Who in our generation.
back in the '50s. didn't dance
to this gorgeous. legendary classic
"Samba no Arpège"?
That was Waldir's band.
They played at all
the graduation dances.
And that chorus? Who sings it?
The musicians themselves?
It's the musicians
and your friend here.
How beautiful!
In fact. Waldir himself
also sang the chorus.
Wonderful...
Those who lack life. you see.
don't have the nerve to dance. why?
"Samba no Arpège" is so good.
don't you see?
Let's go! Let's hear it.
"Samba no Arpège".
by Luiz Bandeira and Waldir Calmon.
Our story takes place
in Brazil in 1977.
in very mischievous times...
Hey!
Want me to fill 'er up?
Don't worry about that. that's OK.
- You wanna fill 'er up?
- Well...
Yeah. fill 'er up. but...
What's that about?
Twat was... last Sunday.
An unfortunate man came to steal
a can of oil. with a knife in his hand.
That's when Rivonildo. who works here
at night. grabbed his 12-gauge shotgun
and fired two shots. one on the
chest and the other in the face and...
he never got up again.
Bastard got what he deserved.
Don't worry. you're a customer.
Nothing to do with that. you know?
Okay...
Could you move aside a little so we...
can get closer to the pump.
- You can pull.
- Has he been there since Sunday?
- Yes. yes..
Wait. let me tell you the whole story.
Okay. there you go!
He was from Sunday to Monday.
in the early hours of carnival.
Rivonildo called the owners.
I did too.
but nobody answered.
Rivonildo fled. so he wouldn't
be caught at the crime scene.
He took the opportunity to go out
to the carnival street party...
And I stayed here with this mess.
Open the hood.
If I go away. I'll lose my job.
If I stay here. I'm stuck with rotting flesh.
I'm almost getting used to this shit.
How much?
- Stop at 120. please.
- Right.
You didn't call the police. did you?
Oh. the cops...
We did. they said they'd come
around Ash Wednesday.
because it's too busy during the carnival.
No sign of them so far.
Difficult... It's now Tuesday.
Started stinking yesterday.
- There are some dogs over there!
- Hey dog. come here! Look!
Thanks. man! See you later.
Until finally. at last.
Thank you.
FEDERAL MOTORWAY POLICE
It's been there since Sunday.
You guys took your time!
We didn't even know about that one.
And here I am. begging for help in misery...
- Good day. sir.
- Good day.
License and registration. please.
You didn't come to take care
of the deceased. did you?
No. My colleague asked me to stop
and check out this yellow Volkswagen.
Can you show me
your fire extinguisher. please?
Sir. would you step out of the car.
please?
Why?
You can trust me sir. you know!
Do you really need to get in my car. sir?
It is necessary.
Please. step out.
Wait here. would you?
Fire extinguisher is good.
Yes... it's up to date.
There is nothing toxic in the car.
right?
You don't want to have a smoke.
do you?
No.
- A gun?
- I don't carry a gun.
Drive on. don’t stop.
Go! Go!
Nobody wants to stop.
Isn’t that spare tire too worn out?
That's a good spare.
All right then.
Listen. sir...
Wouldn't you like to...
make a donation to the Police
Force's carnival fund?
- Captain...
- Not captain. I'm a sergeant.
Sergeant. I've been already
traveling for three days.
I just spent all the money
I had left on gas.
If you'd like. there's a...
You can have about three of these.
Cigarettes.
Can I keep them?
Yes. you can keep them.
Get lost! Get the hell out of here!
Bunch of losers. get out. get out!
Beat it! Go! Go!
THE SECRET AGENT
Pernambuco speaking to the world!
Listeners of Jornal do Commercio.
good afternoon!
DRIVEN BY ME
GUIDED BY GOD
It's Carnival Tuesday.
(Mardi Gras)
You're enjoying this heartbreak.
aren't you. my friend?
Having trouble? Then let's enjoy
the Chicago band!
" If you leave me."
WITCHCRAFT IS THE POOR MAN'S TWIST
PART 1
THE BOY'S NIGHTMARE
OCEANOGRAPHY DEPARTMENT
Oh brother!
- Your blessing. dad?
- God bless you.
Dr. Euclides!
Can I have a conversation
with my boys here. is that okay?
Come on! Move aside! Go!
Before going inside...
tell me what's going on.
So. dad. I think it was that Zezinho
from last week.
What's that all about? What a load
of bullshit! Are you crazy. Arlindo?
Would I have pulled dad from the Carnival.
if it were something trivial?
Who's there. taking care of things?
Aristeu. of the Cordeiro precinct.
Damn. what an annoying faggot...
Fernando isn't here?
- Must be at Carnival. right?
- He is!
- Any journalists?
- No.
Only scientists from the university
and some students.
- Is it the right one or the left one?
- I couldn't see it. I was too far away.
But it stinks...
Dr. Euclides. you needn't have come.
I'm really almost done here.
Euclides Cavalcante.
I am Police Chief. At your service.
This appeared on Sunday.
We couldn't waste any time.
- There's no refrigerator here. is there?
- Yes. but it's broken.
As we were working on it.
we found this piece...
I mean. that leg.
I started to remove it.
but I decided better not to.
We called the police.
That's awful...
This shark was found...
where was it killed?
150 meters from the beach.
There... at Candeias.
That leg... is it of a man?
I'd rather not say anything.
That's for a medical examiner to say.
No! Are you going to use
the pocketknife? Calm down!
I'm used to it.
You'll damage the specimen.
I'll remove it myself...
Please wait for me there.
No pocket knives.
My gloves?
Dra. Inês. just a question.
Did they take a picture of the leg?
No. no pictures.
Dr.. is the shark male or female?
Male.
Fuck!
- Mission accomplished.
- Run!
Oh no. he got soaked!
Over here!
- Mrs. Sebastiana?
- Yes. at your service.
- Marcelo?
- It is me.
- All good?
- Very good.
- I need a ride.
- Sure. hop in.
This is Clóvis.
Get on the footboard. kid!
- All good. buddy?
- All.
- Is it safe there?
- Yes. you can go.
The green chickens didn't want to
catch you because of your beard?
- And didn't they rob me today?
- What?
- Oh no. they stole my cigarettes.
- I wouldn't have let them!
But if you need. I have.
I wouldn't let them steal. no way.
- How long have you been smoking?
- Sixty years.
You were born... How old are you?
Seventy-seven. that's what it says
on my birth certificate.
I was born in 1900.
Give him a hand. Clóvis.
take the suitcases out.
- Open the trunk. please.
- It's open.
Hey. welcome.
- Is this the guy?
- That's the one.
Welcome!
OFIRO ASYLUM
Got you some beer.
to welcome you.
Holy Mary...
Haroldo.
Marcelo.
Oh boy...
This party been going since 7 in the
morning. No one's slept for two nights now.
Come on. Mrs. Sebastiana!
- Let's go home. you better rest.
- Indeed.
- Welcome!
- Thanks. thanks.
Look who's here! Teresa Vitória.
This is Marcelo. just arrived.
- All good?
- All good. nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you too.
- Antônio...
- Good afternoon.
The husband of Teresa Vitória.
They're from Angola.
How is it...
How are things over there?
Oh. it's a long story.
We can have a chat and I'll tell you.
Mrs. Sebastiana. everyone is quite
lively today. aren't they?
Leave it to me. I'll take care of it.
I'll ask them to turn the music down.
- My head is about to explode.
- Leave it to me.
- Thank you.
- Get well soon.
- See you later.
- See you later. Nice meeting you.
This is the Ofir building.
I've lived here for 20 years!
And this is my niece Geisa's apartment.
I have prepared everything for you.
You really mean business . you know.
- All nice and tidy.
- This apartment is great. it's beautiful.
Fully furnished.
I asked Clóvis to come and clean it up.
- Excuse me. could I leave it in the bedroom?
- Put it in the bedroom. Clovis.
He did a thorough cleaning. He washed
everything. removed all the dust.
But I wanted more.
Yesterday I came here...
and brought incense.
rue leaves. coarse salt...
- I gave you a thorough cleaning!
- You are absolutely wonderful.
- Make yourself at home. The house is yours.
- Thank you so much.
And you. buddy. are you going to school?
No. I'm not...
He arrived here last month.
from Rio Formoso.
Hiding. having run away
from his father and uncle.
Because they wanted him to be a man.
the way they wanted him to be!
- Clóvis is a man. right?
- Yes. yes. I am a man.
But not in the way they want.
So. he's helping me out here.
Does everything I ask. water the plants.
picks mangoes. do everything here.
After the soap opera. he goes to sleep.
He will see about his school later.
Right? You have to go to school...
So. there's a cat in the house.
Mrs. Sebastiana. what is this here?
Are you allergic to cats?
No. I do like cats. but...
These kittens were born
in the countryside.
They were going to be put down.
Geisa brought them here.
These are Laiza and Elis.
- Laiza and Elis?
- Yes.
Laiza and Elis...
- Do they come with the apartment?
- More or less...
When Geisa left. she left the cat.
for me to take care of.
They lived upstairs with me. but kept
coming and scratching at Geisa's door.
Then I say. they'll miss Geisa much
and they'll end up ruining the door.
So. I asked Clóvis to make that hole.
It turned out terribly ugly!
I told you it would be ugly.
Yes. you did my son.
It's my fault.
But it turned out ugly.
it really did!
The door ended up ugly.
Now cats and dogs come and go.
Girls. this is Marcelo.
who I told you about.
Marcelo. that's Joana
and the chubby one is Maria.
-Everything alright?
- Excuse me.
They work here. in the building.
Hello. Mrs. Sebastiana.
All good?
This is my new neighbor. Claudia
and her daughter Débora.
- All good?
- All good. Claudia. Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you.
What's with the girl's head?
- Lice.
- She's infested.
Cláudia is a teacher and a dentist...
Divorced!
She's wonderful...
- She came here to meet you.
- Stop it. Mrs. Sebastiana.
- It'll be alright!
- I was just passing by.
I'll take care of all the work right away.
- Oh madam...
- If that's the case...
- Nice to meet you. Cláudia.
- Likewise.
Welcome to our building.
If you need anything. I live upstairs.
- The floor above?
- Yes.
- Is Clóvis up there?
- He is.
I'll give him some money.
to buy cigarettes.
- Nice to meet you. you know.
- Nice to meet you.
I have now told you everything.
I have a package for you. Here.
You have to be there.
early on Friday morning.
- At five in the morning.
- Thank you.
I'm glad I can help.
I found a house by the sea.
There are coconut trees
and a hammock for us to put up.
And then. my love.
I'll feel love in your arms.
In beautiful splendor.
And then...
We'll walk the road.
no longer just the two of us.
SHARKS (JAWS)
I was drawing that movie poster.
Yes. grandpa.
Yay!
When will I be able to watch it?
- Fernando. it can be watched from age 14.
- Uhum.
Besides. you'll have nightmares. as well.
But I already have nightmares. grandpa.
Now. my peace is finally gone.
isn't it?
Mrs. Lenira. I am going to see my son.
Do you think you should even be here?
I'm going to see Fernando. Mr. Alexandre.
Is he here?
Fernando.
Was there was a leg inside a shark?
What were you afraid of?
A person's leg?
Yes. a human leg.
- Where did you see that? On TV?
- On grandpa's radio.
You can't see things on grandpa's radio.
You can only hear.
We'll have to find that guy.
who lost his leg
and stick it back on.
With a screw or with...
with some glue and some string.
right?
- Or sew it back on.
- Sew...
- Sewing with that thing.
- Yes.
Dad. is mom going to stay
here with us now?
Mom's memory is with us.
right here now. isn't she?
When we think about someone.
it's like having them with us.
But can she come back?
No. son.
Mom got sick and died.
She's not coming back.
Remember when you had the flu.
when you felt better but had a fever?
Yes. I remember.
Pneumonia means
the fever is way. way higher.
Wow... Like 50 degrees?
Like 50 degrees.
So sad. isn't it?
Yes. but we're here. you and me.
And mom is here with us.
her memory is with us.
And I'm not living with you now.
only because I can't.
But that's why I came here.
You see?
So we can live together.
so we can stay together forever.
You and I.
SÃO PAULO STATE
That's always playing the "In the City".
Really?
And what about the women?
Good.
SÉRGIO MOTTA DAM
Oh. there's Oliveira.
- Oliveira!
- Lieutenant.
You know I don't usually
ask questions but...
I got curious.
That old lady over there...
What's it to me if I tell you?
Fuckin' nobody.
Don't fuck around. damn it.
And that woman from yesterday?
I'm curious.
It causes an itch. doesn't it?
That you can't scratch.
Inheritance and envy.
They just got here.
I'm almost done.
GHIROTTI
COMPONENTS OF BRAZIL
This is the person.
Apparently. he's fled to Recife.
I'll find out more and
I'll let you know.
Is he white. indian.
brown or mixed-race?
He's white.
Line of work?
It's in that paper.
The information is in the document.
The one on the right.
With the beard.
Umm... a guy like him...
As you can understand. costs more.
I'll charge you 60.000 cruzeiros.
Plus. travel expenses. accommodation...
I'll pay 40.000.
I want a first-class service.
And I don't want any kind of problems.
Don't contact me again.
Pretend I don't exist.
Figure it out yourself.
With all due respect. Mr. Girotti...
Ghirotti!
Dr. Ghirotti...
We've fought a few battles
together before. isn't it so?
There’s no point in pretending
we are negotiating.
when you know my price is fair.
60.000 cruzeiros.
30.000 now and 30.000 after.
- Are you two always together?
- Always.
That's right.
We'll sign the contract together.
Now. if you don't agree.
I understand and respect it.
These holidays passed in an instant.
He's a despicable man.
I want...
a hole.
A hole?
In his mouth.
Turn into a puppet. you understand?
You can rest assured.
All right. 60.000 it is.
That means you don't have any cavities...
I have dental calculus.
Here! I found a cavity.
Ah. it's huge. isn't it?
Easy.
Marcelo!
Yes. Mrs. Sebastiana?
The groceries are here!
Come have a word with Valdemar.
- Your examination is up.
- It's not over at all. it's not!
I don't feel like kissing. no.
- How so?
- We've kissed a lot already.
It's true.
You know Geisa's story.
Mrs. Sebastiana's niece?
The owner of this bed. of this house.
I was told she went away
and left the house behind.
That's not true.
Her fiancé killed her.
He got angry because she got
a scholarship to study in Germany.
What's this all about. man...
- What a tragedy. isn't it?
- Oh my God...
How come you know this?
Mrs. Sebastiana told me.
I realized she was telling people
a different story.
- Mrs. Sebastiana.
- Hello!
- How are you?
- I'm doing well. I've been worse.
But at 77-year-old. I'm doing great!
Joana!
- Hey. good morning!
- Good morning.
You're ready. darling?
You called. Mrs. Cláudia?
Could you please get my groceries
from downstairs?
Where were you?
Mom helped a man who had a toothache.
Is he giving you a lot of trouble.
ma'am?
I am giving him trouble.
He's in good hands.
I'm crazy about this woman.
- She is our guardian.
- He's well taken care of.
- So. do you come over every week?
- No. it's every Thursday.
My parents have a farm. right?
When I can. I gather the excess.
bring fruit. vegetables...
- So. we don't have to go out there?
- Right.
Maria!
- Mrs. Sebastiana...
- Hello.
- Good morning. Valdemar.
- Good morning. Marcelo.
So. have you been to the refugee market?
- Any mangabas today?
- No. we're out of mangabas.
Let's try to avoid that word. shall we?
We don't use it here.
- "Mangaba"?
- "Refugees".
And what are we then?
Flávia.
Wait a minute.
- I didn't hear you.
- Which date are you listening to?
February 25. 1977.
- Which one are you listening to?
- I'm listening to the '78 tape.
- Of Sebastiana.
- I understood.
The arrangement was...
for him to go to the office
at five in the morning
and look for Anísio.
who was our contact there.
And so he went.
PART 2
IDENTIFICATION DOCUMENTS INSTITUTE
Wake up. kid.
Keep an eye out.
Human leg found in shark's stomach...
Look at that. man...
"Agronomy student still missing."
Dear Lord. how unlucky can one get...
We couldn't have known.
that he was a good guy. right?
How were we supposed to know
about something like that?
IDENTIFICATION DOCUMENTS INSTITUTE
ROBERTO SANTELMO
Look at that.
I don't know why you're so concerned
about what comes out in the newspaper.
Because there could be
some little communist fuckers
trying to fool us. man.
As long as they don't find the rest.
everything's fine.
One leg won't lead them anywhere.
Now. what about the leg?
It's at the morgue. right?
And introducing our program.
Luiz Cavalcante!
- Marcelo?
- Marcelo. Anísio?
Punctual. you are.
I was told to come early.
We were all told to do the same.
Let's go inside.
- Of pain?
- Yes.
- Bring coffee and water. please.
- OK.
- Easy on the sugar.
- Sure.
You don't have a São Paulo accent.
- I'm from Pernambuco.
- Oh. I see.
But that Pernambuco accent
sounds a bit off. no...
Mr. Geraldo. please stay here.
Good morning. Mrs. Guiomar.
It's like a normal working day.
all right? Sit here.
Anísio. where will I sit?
Let's go over to...
to that last desk over there.
We're here today to support...
To help...
Police Chief Euclides.
whom you saw down there.
The office opens to the public at seven.
That's when you will start working.
We got here at five.
but it only opens at seven?
Yes. You will have some time
to get acquainted.
And most importantly:
to have a quorum.
Oh... have a quorum for what?
Mr. Formiga?
No. Elisângela.
I'm expecting
a parcel of clothes this morning.
Can you keep it by for me?
And tell the boy. as well.
Thank you.
Do you want a chicken croquette today?
Sure.
Hmm. I like it.
I got three down on your tab.
- A croquette. newbie?
- No. thanks.
- It's only a cruzeiro and a half.
- Thank you. I already had breakfast.
Are you sure?
- This is my office. I reserved it for you.
- Thank you.
Hey. everyone!
No. wait.
Dear. calm down!
We have access to public space.
But you were invited today.
You stay here. okay?
Who is that woman?
There was a little girl. about
three years old. who was...
run over and killed outside
of that woman's house.
The girl was her housemaid's daughter.
That's why Police Chief Euclides.
that one. over there.
asked Anísio to round us all up
before opening hours.
We came early for the lady's deposition.
- Is this a police station?
- No.
It's a police station today.
to make life easier for the posh lady.
That wretched woman asked her maid
to go buy bread from the bakery.
And left the girl alone crying.
the poor thing.
The gate was open. the girl went out.
To look for her mother. I don't know...
The bus ran over the girl.
It appears the girl's mother was
not informed on the
change in time and location
of the deposition.
Personnel. please return to your work.
Come on. everyone! Let's cooperate
with Police Chief Euclides.
People!
Good morning...
Thank you very much for being here.
The deposition will take place
in my office.
You can do your job
as if it were a normal working day.
After the deposition.
photojournalists will take pictures.
Let's please cooperate
with Police Chief Euclides.
Shh!
I hold an appointed position.
Yes...
But...
I enj...
I enjoy it.
But...
it's complicated.
CARNIVAL DEATH TOLL: 91
HUMAN LEG FOUND
IN SHARK'S STOMACH
There will be more than 100.
You can be sure of that.
- Over 100 dead?
- Oh my...
- Are you a police officer?
- I'm not a police officer. no.
You sure look like one.
No. I'm not a police officer.
Euclides Oliveira Cavalcante.
at your service.
Marcelo.
Marcelo what?
Alves.
Marcelo Alves.
The name of a police officer.
No. I'm not a police officer.
A photojournalist is coming in now.
That woman is in great pain. man.
Kids are a big trouble.
Anyway. I'm a Police Chief.
My office is next door.
If you need anything. just call. okay?
This one coming next...
is Anísio.
Do you know him?
Euclides!
This citizen is starting with us today.
The citizen came highly recommended.
Let's go!
I'll show you the archive room.
Let's go! Let's go!
- Anything you need. at your service.
- Nice to meet you.
That is Police Chief Euclides
is quite a character. isn't he?
There you go...
An imperfect human being.
Better to keep him close.
Now... his white son.
that Sergio guy...
God help us...
I’m on my way. Dr.
It's you again. Desidério?
- Good morning.
Dr.. this time schedule
is taking up a lot of my time.
Get out of here. get out of here.
go up front. man.
But boy...
- That guy's way too much of a womanizer.
- Damn it!
- This is your workplace.
- Alright.
Oh my god...
Don't mind the welcome.
Your job involves
a lot of back and forth.
This is where identity cards
are renewed.
It is...
I worked here from '66... to '73.
Too many dead people.
Tell me a name.
Maria Aparecida dos Santos.
Maria Aparecida...
you're breaking my heart!
Your mother?
It’s easier with the father's name.
So. give it a try...
Lourinaldo Fernando de Melo Solimões.
"Solimões"... Now that's a name!
Everything else is just an addition.
Lourinaldo...
Lourinaldo Fernando.
Lorinaldo Fernando!
Here he is.
- Still a student.
- The father's name is easier.
Hello.
I’ll be right there.
Marcelo.
I am also here to help you.
I work with Elza.
I'll say no more.
Mrs. Cleide. I know you're in there!
I'm coming over.
Hear that?
- It's the girl's mother.
- The dead girl's?
Our orders are. no one gets in.
I know she's in here. she'll hear me!
- You cannot enter.
- Mrs. Cleide!
Mrs. Cleide. I know you're in there!
I'm going in! I'm going to talk to her!
I want to see it in her eyes!
She'll listen to me! Get away!
I want to talk to her!
Mrs. Cleide!
I know the lady is there!
I want to hear from her!
Why did you do that?
Why did you leave my daughter alone?
You can't stop my client
from entering a public building!
You know! You know!
Look who's at the phone booth.
What's up. my man?
Let's go across the street.
I have something to show you.
Now!
- Now?
- Now.
I will introduce you to a great guy.
I'm taking my boys to see him.
you can come along.
You can take advantage of this
and come with us.
- Dr. Euclides. right?
- At your service. Shall we go?
- Across the street?
- It won't take long.
I need to make a call.
Does it have to be now?
Let's go. let's go!
Dad likes you. man.
Take advantage of it.
Let's go!
- Across the street?
- Across the street.
Once upon a time.
there was a king.
who had a big flea.
He loved it very much.
as much as he loved
his own son.
38.
He sent for his tailor.
He called the poor animal...
You!
Hans! My friend!
I know that voice.
- Hey. big guy! Where's Hans?
- Look who's here...
I have a friend here.
to introduce him to.
Tell them I’m not here!
Can't you leave it for another time. sir?
- Can I come in? Hans!
- Dr. Euclides...
Dr. Euclides is here!
Hans! Hans...
Good morning!
My German friend. I brought a friend
here to introduce you to.
Marcelo. this is Hans.
A real German soldier from World War II.
This man has some stories to tell!
Not today...
Tired.
Show your scars to my boys
and to my friend.
Dr. Euclides...
We're grateful for your work in the area.
But please come back another time.
Hans is not feeling well today.
Chief. please.
Can I have a word with Hans.
big guy?
I just want to see his scars.
Not today.
tired.
Tired!
Hans. you don't have to do this.
Dr. Euclides. I think. that...
Dad. I don't think that he wants to.
Hans.
listen.
Show us the bullet holes
in your legs.
Come on. do it!
he doesn't want to talk.
Show us your scars.
Are there sharks in Germany?
- Bullet wounds?
- Tátátátátátátá!
Fantastic. annoying...
- It's a mess.
- Didn't I tell you?
Eh... Germany?
Belgium.
Have you seen enough.
or do you want more?
Hans!
I'm doing this for us.
This idiot here.
guarantees your safety and ours.
He will never understand.
that you are Jewish.
Always.
Out!
Get out of my office!
And take your friends.
Out!
You can only talk that way because
you are a soldier from World War II.
Get out. now!
What the fuck!
BRASÍLIA - FEDERAL DISTRICT
Costa. Carpinteiro & Associates.
hello?
I would like to speak to João Pedro.
please.
I'll put you through right away.
- Hello?
- Dr. João. All OK? What's going on there?
Listen carefully. I will explain.
I hope you're doing well. okay?
Don't say where you are.
- Why?
- This call isn't secure.
Our phones are being monitored.
Pay attention.
we can only talk on a secure line.
Better. hang up now.
Give me a number and I'll call you.
João?
Send the number how?
Fuck!
Telegram.
PHONE NO 216180
EXTENSION 22
EXPECT CONTACT 17:30 HOURS
END
- Hello.
Telegram.
Why did you open it?
I didn't read it. though.
If you didn't read it.
why open it?
Not sure what to say...
Popsicle! Popsicle! Popsicle!
The great dragon was cast out.
It is the great serpent...
- Hey! Pedro?
- It's me.
I'd like to speak to Mr. Alexandre.
is he here?
He's expecting you.
Just a minute.
Up there?
Calm down. mom! Calm down!
NO ENTRY
It's a staircase. you see?
There's a woman...
possessed by a spirit in the foyer.
It's this movie.
- Any calls for me?
- No.
But someone sent you a message.
Have a good day. dad.
Fernando
Thanks.
Let's go in.
NO ENTRY
AUTHORIZED STAFF ONLY
JAWS
You're doing a "Jaws" rerun?
Pedro programmed it
for Saturday morning. you know?
Because of that story about the leg.
found in the shark's stomach.
People love it. right?
Indeed. Nandinho is the one.
who's dying to see "Jaws".
I was thinking of bringing him
with me Saturday morning.
You're crazy. Mr. Alexandre.
I'd let him see it.
if it was up to me.
No. the film is too intense for him.
The kid has nightmares.
just from seeing the poster.
There's something going on.
This happens every single day.
Every single day.
Fátima used to love that window.
She liked to sit right there.
where you are.
I want to ask you a question.
Looking in the eye.
When you two were married.
you fucked around a lot. didn't you?
What are you on about.
after all this time?
Did you. or didn't you?
Mr. Alexandre...
Fátima and I loved each other
very much.
And you know that better than anyone.
don't you?
I do.
Fernando is the greatest proof of that.
Now.
did you or did you not fuck around?
Hello? Just a minute.
Phone call.
Hello! Hey João. it worked. right?
It's good to talk to you. It's good
to know you're doing well. you know?
I must be quick.
I don't have many tokens.
Let me tell you.
He managed to get your name
on the Federal Police's list.
That means you can't leave the country.
That's very bizarre.
I can't travel?
I'm trying to understand.
He's pulling his strings.
That's playing dirty.
at the highest level.
I'm telling you.
he managed to get
a serious prosecutor off the case.
pro-regime. but serious...
and had him replaced by a crook.
a friend of his from Rio.
What the fuck is this João?
I have to say.
I don't like this at all.
So please.
don't expose yourself.
stay in the shadows.
- Okay. this is my last token.-
- OK.
Listen carefully.
Elza.
is the name of the most important
character in this story. now.
Elza.
Great place. isn’t it?
The Rio technician stays here.
you know?
The company saves on hotel expenses.
Mr. Alexandre?
Alexandre de Jesus do Nascimento.
at your service.
- I'm Elza.
- Pleased to meet you.
- I'm Valdemar.
- Hello.
What should I call you?
Here. you can call me
by my name. Armando.
Such an honor to talk to you here.
You didn't say you were using
a fake name.
It's not badly done. is it?
Yes. it's kind of poorly done.
And thanks for the free tickets.
We just saw the movie.
Did you like it?
I'm not a religious person.
but it was scary.
Valdemar almost shit himself.
I don't like horror movies.
Can I record our conversation?
Record whatever your like.
Recording.
This is like...
those American
witness protection programs.
There... everything is done
with a lot of money
and by their government. right...
Over here. it's all a bit
improvised. Brazilian style.
And to protect you from Brazil.
How many people are you helping?
Including you.
four people here in Recife.
Plus. two in Fortaleza
and one in Salvador.
And are all the people from Recife
in the same building as me?
Look. each case is different.
- So. we all help each other.
- Right.
And who's paying for all this?
It's paid for by the daughter...
of a very wealthy São Paulo family.
that has been robbing the country
for a long time.
How was it at work today?
So. you placed me
at a police station. seriously?
No! No. it's not a police station.
You asked for the
Institute for Identification.
I did.
I'll try to find
the only document that proves
that my late mother did exist.
But now.
that place is a police station.
There is a Police Chief there.
Did you two talk?
That guy's a jerk. isn't he?
A real son of a bitch.
The worst thing is that...
he seemed to like me.
Just so you know.
we have an ally there.
Anísio.
Is it OK for him to know who I am?
Anísio is helping.
But he doesn't know who you are.
or what's being done to you.
How's the passport situation going?
Mine and my son's?
Don't know if you're aware.
but I'm on a list.
of the Federal Police
banning me from travelling.
Given the situation.
we agree that you need a fake passport.
We can handle that.
I can get you those documents.
but it'll take a few days.
Elza. what's going on?
I don't understand.
Why do I need a fake passport?
I've done nothing wrong...
And what's in it for you?
Who are you?
I'm a pediatrician.
I'm only trying to help.
Armando. it's not about that now.
Think about your son. of my grandson.
Think about my daughter. Fátima.
Mr. Alexandre.
all I do is thinking about my son.
I'm very sorry about your daughter.
Mr. Alexandre.
And your wife. Armando.
How could this country
lose someone like Fátima?
Brazil will pay dearly for that.
I disagree.
With all due respect. you know.
It'll pay nothing.
It won't pay shit.
Armando. I admire you.
but you should leave!
If I was you.
I'd get the hell out of here!
I'd take their help and leave today!
That's why I've arranged all this!
Mr. Alexandre...
We need to protect what we still have.
You and my grandson.
I'll be in the projection booth.
Lock from the inside.
We would like to know more
about Henrique Castro Ghirotti.
and how he got involved in this.
I'll let it all out.
I'll get this
off my chest.
It's a conversation.
Recorded.
Tell me about this...
Henrique Ghirotti.
I...
am not a violent person.
But this man...
I'd kill him with a hammer.
I'd bash his head completely
with a hammer.
Do you...
carry a gun?
No. but I know how to use a hammer.
I need to go to the bathroom.
She paused recording to go pee...
We'd like to know more
about Henrique Castro Ghirotti.
and how he got involved in this case.
Flávia?
...off my chest.
It's a conversation.
Which date are you listening to?
- Sorry?
- Which date are you listening to?
It's Elza with "Marcelo". in quotes.
February 25. 1977.
I haven't finished it yet. though.
Marcelo is Armando.
you know that. right?
Ah... That's what I just heard here.
but I got confused.
So. Marcelo is actually Armando.
- It's a fake name.
- Exactly.
You're clever. Flávia!
Which one are you listening to?
The tape of Anísio.
Of '76.
I understood.
I need to go to the bathroom.
How did you meet Ghirotti?
He came on a visit to the university.
As head of department.
I'd sometimes meet guests
at the airport. here in Recife.
He was on the board
of directors of Eletrobras.
under the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
So. you're Armando.
I read your CV.
I thought you were
a different kind of person.
- I'll take it as a compliment.
- Yes. Hot. isn't it?
So. what was your first impression?
Of Ghirotti?
A piece of shit.
And his son. another piece of shit.
How long have you been
head of department?
I got back from postdoc research.
about two years ago.
Now I'm making up
for my research leave.
And I was elected.
Do you ever consider working
in the industry. young man?
An industry makeover would do you
a lot of good.
I enjoy research projects.
Did he say "an industry makeover"?
He said. I needed an industry makeover.
When was that?
That was...
in August 1974.
We introduced him to everyone.
in the department.
Luanda Azevedo was there.
Marcelo Vasconcelos.
Sebastião Peixe...
We introduced everyone.
We gave him a tour.
We showed him our labs.
all our projects...
The electric autonomy project.
the electric car project...
The leather tanning machine.
which was a highlight
of our department.
Let me introduce you to my colleagues.
- Hello guys.
- Hi!
This is Dr. Susan Schaeffer
from the Leeds University.
Sanjay Jasleen. from the École
de Technologie of Quebec.
- Are you English?
- No. not me.
I am. basically. American.
From New York.
But Sanjay...
I am English.
Are you British?
Yes.
Really;
Yes. We studied together in Leeds.
Now. I am living in Quebec.
Yes. of course.
So. here we are.
He is a good guy.
That was it. The following day.
there was a meeting.
At that meeting. he basically...
shut down the department.
To save time.
I'll go straight to the point.
As far as Eletrobras is concerned.
far away from Pernambuco.
the work you're doing here.
in my view. should be part of a whole
I see you all running around
a bit too freely.
disconnected from us down South.
I'd like to concentrate in Rio.
the object of some of your research
and decision-making.
Precisely to avoid
that old discussion. that
things are done one way in the north
and another way in the south.
I know you people have
this different accent.
a way of doing things differently.
Here. even your head of department
has hair.
Right. Armando?
Long live differences. right?
What I'm trying to say is that...
I was a little surprised by the things
I saw here.
Sorry...
Just to...
Be clear.
All of the department's projects
are published in the Official Gazette.
I don't see why you're surprised.
Unless you haven't read it.
Let me finish.
I also spoke in a positive way.
- Just to get that clear.
- It's a compliment.
Ah. all right...
Including this leather tanning
technology.
the one measures the surface area
of the leather.
I think is important
for the local culture.
The ox. the goat. the cow.
are relevant for the economy
of the Northeast Region.
I like it.
This is a regional center.
it's not a national center.
much less an international one.
The electric car. for example.
a project that you presented to me.
By the way.
Armando is also working on it.
There's more advanced research.
being conducted in Canada.
In fact. we've acquired 12 prototypes
from the Canadian consortium.
- Through Eletrobras.
- I'd like to add that...
You and your company
are part of that project.
Eletrobras.
Eletrobras has indeed acquired
12 prototypes from the consortium.
Eletrobras?
- Not your own company?
- Eletrobras. May I carry on?
So...
I wonder.
if taxpayer money
should be spent here
in the Northeast Region.
on projects like this...
That's outrageous...
...when you have so many problems
in your own region to solve.
And on top of that.
competing with top-tier projects
from abroad.
Dr. Ghirotti.
I'm Luanda Azevedo.
I'm a research professor.
with a degree from the Federal
University of Rio Grande do Sul.
- You are a gaúcha?
- Yes. I am from the South.
All our projects are funded
by public research grants.
And we have partnership projects.
funded by foreign independent
trust money.
It's time to rethink
your funding criteria.
and most importantly. independence.
right?
Luanda. in fact.
was our first casualty.
She went to work
at the São Paulo metro.
where that prick was
on the Technical Committee.
And did this happen to the whole team?
It did.
It was a real "industry makeover".
He dried up public university funding.
of a public university.
for personal benefit.
It's a business like that...
And then I was showered
with accusations.
I'm not sure you know.
but two planted articles were published.
coordinated hit pieces against you.
in Rio and São Paulo newspapers.
Thank God. we haven't seen anything
in any of the Recife papers.
This will all pass.
I hope it will.
Mr. Alexandre. please sit over here.
so I can look at you better.
closer to here.
I told you the story in the wrong order.
The evening before that meeting.
we went out for dinner.
Myself. Fátima. Ghirotti
and that son of his.
She started as your secretary.
didn't she?
Restroom.
What a beautiful woman you have.
- Would you like some water?
- Yes. please.
I invited you to dinner with my wife.
And she's just told you
she's a professor. hasn't she?
But I know why you're doing that.
You're saying that because of the
research on lithium batteries. right?
I have patented this research.
It's my project.
It's a simple advancement.
it's a simple patent.
But it's mine. Henrique.
Give me a whiskey. please.
My nose never fails. eh son?
You know me.
This fellow is using the university
to patent research.
Respect me. Henrique.
He uses the public system
to access the market.
We need to shut down
all these shitholes.
Easy money. right?
Public money is easy money.
I am head of the research center
you are visiting.
I'm a public servant at
the university that's hosting you.
I'm impressed...
I knew I had to come here.
I was sure that I had to come!
Armando. I'm in engineering.
I run a family company.
The result of much sweat and hard work.
It is...
My father is Italian. from Genoa.
I have Italian blood.
You've no idea
who you're messing with. boy.
You're a communist.
- I'm not a communist.
- You are.
Are you a capitalist. Armando?
I think I'm more of a communist
than a capitalist.
Pay attention. Armando.
You know this map.
Hum.
Brazil...
North.
Each one in his place. Armando.
Greatest bargain ever. man.
Fátima!
I am a civil servant. from the
university. you came to visit.
I'm not the kind of boy you called me.
Respect me!
This dinner is paid for.
tomorrow's meeting starts at 8:30.
The car will pick you up at 8:00.
If you want to go. go.
If you don't want to. don't go.
That idiot doesn't need to go.
I don't even know what he's doing here.
Let me tell you something. real quick.
I went to the bathroom because I felt
a mix of needing to pee and vomit...
Then I got up from the table
and it passed instantly.
Control your woman.
You have been very disrespectful to us.
But very disrespectful indeed!
- Let's go.
- Wait.
Control your woman.
No. no. no!
Now you're going to listen.
because I'm going to speak.
I kept quiet the whole evening
out of respect for Armando.
Very disrespectful. especially for
a father in the presence of his son.
At times like these. I remember
my father. who is a very simple man.
He started working at the age of nine.
That is a man.
That is a man. You hear me?
Like my husband here.
This is a man.
Let's go.
You're drunk. You're drunk.
This is a disgrace.
What kind of people are you?
And the secretary says up yours.
Go fuck yourself.
Whoa... Whoa!
And you can go fuck yourself too!
Armando...
You can't talk like that...
What is this?
The last time I punched someone.
was at high school.
High school. back in the '50s.
And there was also a meeting
the following day?
Oh my... just like that.
Did Fátima really say that about me?
She did. Mr. Alexandre.
Well... well. okay.
OK...
Ghirotti is a criminal.
He belongs in jail.
And when I say that.
I don't mean a penal farm.
He should be in Carandiru.
He's a traitor to his country...
He's a thief...
and a murderer.
In your group of. let's say.
"refugees".
yours is the case I want the most
to solve.
Yes. I figured as much because...
There are these two foreign
universities that want to accept me.
I imagine they must be putting
pressure on you.
That's not what I'm talking about.
The foreigners want you. it's great.
But that's not what I'm talking about.
We have received information...
that two guys have been hired to
come to Recife and look for you.
That's not a good thing.
They work as a pair.
they're from the interior of Rio.
The older one is called
Augusto Borba.
He is a retired military
officer since 1970.
Even that shitty army didn't
want that guy anymore.
Based in the interior
of Minas Gerais.
He is a degenerate.
The younger. Bobbi.
is his stepson.
And it is said that Bobbi's
stepfather murdered his mother
and that nowadays.
they work together.
You're saying there are hitmen
looking for me?
Yes.
Did Guirotti order this?
And what about the passports?
A week. ten days at most.
In your hands in four days.
Four days?
That's a huge lack of respect.
you know.
For Fátima. for you
and for your boy who's at my house.
She was so healthy!
Four days?
PERNAMBUCO INSTITUTE
OF FORENSIC MEDICINE
Let me tell you something
important. outside.
Really? What is it?
A very important deal.
- Why?
- We better go outside.
Get that thing out of here.
I'll just say one thing. Lindinha
is now completely out of control.
Holy shit!
This place is going to catch fire. guys!
There you go "Hairy Leg strikes again".
The illustration turned out good.
Oh!
The Hairy Leg!
There will be piranhas in the river.
you'll see!
You're throwing this shit over.
you hear. Sérgio?
- What did you say?
- You're the one will throw this crap here.
Here. here. here!
Stop! Stop here.
I'll make that phone call.
Cinema São Luiz. good evening?
Good evening.
Is Mr. Alexandre there. please?
I think he already left.
Just a moment.
I'll connect you to the booth.
Thanks.
- Hello.
- External call.
- Is Mr. Alexandre there. please?
Oh no. he left early today.
Who's speaking. please?
Just confirming. his name is
Alexandre Jesus do Nascimento. right?
I can't help you with that. man.
you know?
Do you want to leave your name?
I can pass a message on to him.
Damn it...
It seems the father-in-law works at the
São Luiz Cinema. not the other one.
Wow. what a tough guy!
They arrived.
Holy shit!
What a macho tourist!
My colonel is punctual!
Check out that hat. man!
In your honor. damn it!
And this vehicle?
Get in. let's go!
That's great. man!
Come on in. everyone in!
SECRETARIAT OF PUBLIC SECURITY
PERNAMBUCO CIVIL POLICE
Wow. wow!
That's my colonel.
Whoa. what's that...
"My colonel". my ass...
My lieutenant!
Lieutenant. you are great!
First lieutenant. very proud
of the uniform I once wore!
Let me introduce my stepson. Bobbi.
Or Abdias. On his birth certificate.
it is Abdias.
Wow. that's great! Is everything
alright there. Abdias?
Is the guy a good shot?
Are you crazy. man?
This is Sergio. his mother's son.
That other one there is Arlindo.
an adopted son.
I prefer "Bobbi". Mr. Euclides.
Dr. Euclides. I don't work
at the corner store. okay?
What's with "Bobbi" anyway?
Is that a man's name?
They were out of men's names that day.
damn it?
- Dr. Euclides.
- Ah. better.
This man is tough. son. you see?
He doesn't like being called "mister".
It gets him worked-up.
You got that. right?
So. calm down.
You guys. here on a mission?
Hey. don't talk like that. son.
Never mix friendship and work. OK?
Carnival was lively...
Almost 100 gone.
I read in the paper about the party.
There was even a leg.
swallowed by a shark.
Something for the tourists.
Speaking of which.
re we going for a "ride"?
A "ride"?
We are going for a "ride".
Where are we going?
Cool it. kid.
Today we're just tourists. you know?
we aren't going for no "ride". no.
But how will it be?
It's been taken care of.
It's all been taken care of.
One is a "157".
The other one is a "157" plus "213".
They're right back there. look.
Back there. already?
"One. five. seven" and "213".
Holy fuck!
"213" means...?
It's the commonly known as "rape"!
And "157" is robbery with manslaughter.
There are only good boys here.
A local man named Pedro Jorge do
Nascimento. 27-years old. a student.
resident of Mustardinha.
was out on an evening walk
in the 13 de Maio Park.
with a friend named
Alexandrino Borges. 32-years old.
a dental prosthetist and
resident of Bomba do Hemetério.
when they were surprised by
a shadow.  that came jumping
and started kicking them.
But this is so odd.
Odd. but we all know what that is.
don't we?
It's treated as news in the paper!
Tereza. read the bit about the attack.
It's very good. Read it.
- But haven't you read it?
- I have.
But it's much better to listen
with your Angolan accent. do it!
Thank you so much.
Well. look at that!
Hello. everyone! Wow!
- Welcome.
- Thank you. my love.
- All's well?
- All's well. my love.
Marcelo. it's so good. that you came
for the farewell.
Mrs. Sebastiana had already told me.
I was really looking forward to being
here with you guys. Are you well?
- I'm Geraldo. a friend of Sebastiana's.
- Nice to meet you. all is well?
"The Hairy Leg"
is all the rage in Casa Amarela.
It had an air of anarchy.
don't you think?
Drunkard...
- Can I make a phone call?
- If it's not long distance. you can.
Help me with the dishes. Clóvis.
I don't like Recife.
I haven't been treated well here.
Hello. Mrs. Zuleika?
I'm sorry to call you at this hour.
I really needed to talk to Mr. Alexandre.
I would like to leave a message.
I would really like to talk to my son.
It's a peculiar city. but...
It's OK.
"The Hairy Leg" that hops away
would be a big hit in Luanda!
Thank you. Mrs. Zuleika.
Good night.
- Is that cachaça?
- It is.
To your heath. Mr. Marcelo.
Marcelo is your nickname. right?
Marcelo...
My name is Armando. but can call
me Marcelo as well. if you wish.
I prefer not to reveal my real name.
"Tereza Victória"... was the name
of a dear aunt of mine.
Actually. I've always wanted to be
"Tereza Victória".
- A lovely name.
- I like compound names.
The names are for your own security.
It's not easy to be called
by another name.
It's just a precaution.
My own name's Sebastiana.
I didn't change it.
My name's Clóvis.
Just Clóvis really.
I wish I had your courage.
I really do.
But it's not easy
to live under a death threat.
I am under a death threat.
I am as well. under a death threat.
Let's change this atmosphere.
I will put on some music.
Look. Mrs. Sebastiana.
I never meant to bring anyone down.
Give me a hand.
I said that because...
I'm alive!
I'm strong. I have my son.
I want to live.
It's just that...
I found out today.
that I'm under a death threat.
It was quite a surprise.
For someone who managed to fight
against both sides in Angola.
finding refuge here.
was so good.
Now António and I are going away.
On a plane with no Portuguese flag.
Tereza...
- We insisted on that!
- Teresa. you're talking too much.
Mrs. Sebastiana. you're the best.
Thank you very much.
Don't mention it.
You're very welcome.
Tereza. where are you two going?
That's beside the point. Haroldo.
But thank you.
My niece Geisa liked this song very much.
Better said. she loved it.
I think it's for me.
Hello. Mr. Alexandre.
That's fine. Mr. Alexandre.
See you later. good night.
I don't want to see you sad.
I'll show you my little museum.
Look here... That is my niece.
Geisa. when she was little.
In this one. she's all grown up.
Is that you over there. ma'am?
That's me and my lover
at the time. Andrea.
That was in Italy. in Sassuolo.
You lived in Italy. didn't you?
For seven years.
From '36 to '42.
Oh my. you never told me that.
You never asked me.
I only came back when the war ended.
I went to Italy to study music.
Then I stayed.
things kept getting worse.
I was unable to come back.
Over there. I was a communist.
then an anarchist.
Or the other way around.
I don't remember.
I saw something there with my own eyes.
that I'm not going to tell you about.
I'll take it. with me. to my grave.
I also did three things there.
which I'm not going to tell you.
But I did it. and I had to.
To conclude. a toast to you all!
A toast.
- To my friend Geraldo.
- Thank you.
Life has bad things.
but it also has good things.
To Haroldo. who's not Haroldo.
A toast to Marcelo. who's Armando.
To this woman
who is Tereza Victória to me.
She's off to Sweden with António.
A toast to Cláudia. who is Cláudia.
And to Débora.
who I'm sure will live
in a better Brazil.
She will grow up in a better Brazil.
with less wickedness.
Cheers. to everyone.
Cheers.
Thank you. Mrs. Sebastiana.
Look at me. look at me!
I'm here.
I'm here with you. I'm here.
PART 3
BLOOD TRANSFUSION
Oh. damn it...
Vilmar!
Dr. Bobbi. Dr. Augusto.
- Is this the man?
- This is the man.
Irineu says you're the man.
I don't know about that.
Is he up to the job?
He will manage.
It's a job right here in Recife.
Requires great responsibility
and confidence.
Poor people or rich people?
I don't know. damn it!
Looks fancy. but he isn't rich.
right?
Fancy looking is rich.
It's more expensive.
- He carries a gun?
- No...
That guy's a wimp.
I'll do it for 4.000.
Fuck!
What do you use for the job?
A medium frame long barrel .38.
A sure shot.
I'll give you 2.000.
It's 4.000. I'll do it for 4.000.
You work in this shithole.
carrying sugar. doing animal jobs.
to earn peanuts.
The job is easy. damn it.
And we have information that
will help you with your job.
"Animal jobs"...
I don't like how you talk. no.
That is our man.
4.000 it is.
It's four. then.
But you're coming now.
2.000 upfront. now.
Severino.
- I'm going out for a bit. okay?
- I'll be back in half an hour.
- You can leave it to me.
- Take care. you hear!
If Santa Cruz win today.
I'll buy you a beer. you know?
- I'm going out and I'll be right back.
- Okay.
- Hello!
- Good morning.
- Is Mr. Alexandre here?
- He just left.
Really?
Pity.
HAIRY LEG STEALS
LEG FROM MORGUE
Maria Aparecida dos Santos
MARIA APARECIDA DOS SANTOS
Maria Augusta?
- Maria Aparecida?
- Maria Aparecida.
Quite a few of them.
Is it your mother?
You're really committed to this. huh?
My mother died
and I'd like to have a document of her.
Even if only one.
And I know
her ID card was issued here.
I desperately want to find that file now.
I hope you'll find it.
- Morning.
- Morning. boss.
Is this where they issue ID cards?
Yes. sir.
Brenda Oliveira da Mata.
I came to speak with an employee.
- Maria Eugênia Cox.
- Armando!
You can let him in.
- Is everything alright?
- I called you Armando...
- Is Fernando alright?
- He's fine. He asked me to give you this.
He kept bothering me.
I had to swear that I would bring
it to you this morning.
Turn it over.
Dad. grandpa and grandma
are very nice.
but I want to live with you.
Mariana da Rocha Pinheiro
I think I'm starting to forget
about mom.
Come back quickly.
Fernando.
Eduardo Lopes da Paz
Célia Maria Tavares Correia
You're taking my grandson away.
I'm taking my son.
You really have to take him.
You should take him.
I need to go.
Did you find your mother's document?
No.
Gabriel dos Anjos Barros
Cláudia Andrade Lima Melo.
Amélia Bastos Silva?
Mariana da Rocha Pinheiro
Mariana?
Kauã Barros Campos
Inaê Leão Marinho
Next. Kauã Barros Campos?
Amélia Vasco Silva?
Mariana da Rocha Pinheiro
Mariana da Rocha Pinheiro?
Edivaldo Cordeiro Monteiro Filho
Claudia Andrade Lima Melo
Demóstenes Guerra Ferreira
Natália de Oliveira Silva?
Girl.
- Right?
- Is that Armando?
No. His name is Marcelo.
Armando!
His name's not Armando.
Take a couple of big guys.
and go give him a scare.
We only have two patrol cars.
Excuse me. Dr. Euclides.
excuse me. how are you?
Tell me. Tell me. Marcelo.
- I wanted to talk to you.
- Go ahead.
Dr. Euclides. you know that
I don't carry a weapon.
We're very exposed down there.
There is a citizen. down there.
who showed up.
was disrespective to the girls.
Oh. my...
He threatened me!
And he's over there looking for trouble.
So. I thought it best to speak with you.
You have to walk around armed. my man.
Commands respect. damn it!
Stretch your arm out.
Stretch your...
The hand. he wants to see your hand.
Stretch it out.
He is nervous.
Did you mess with his wife?
No! I don't know that guy.
He's down there now.
Dr. Euclides.
I wouldn't have come here.
asking for your help.
if I didn't think that
it is a dangerous situation.
Arlindo. go and check it out.
Leave it to me.
I was itching to do it myself.
Thanks you.
Marcão. let's go down
and sort out a problem.
- Now?
- It'll be quick. We'll be right back.
SWINDLERS AND CON ARTISTS
SSPPE
Lieutenant! Hey. Lieutenant!
Telephone!
Hello.
Mr. Augusto. it's Vilmar.
I found the man.
Where did you find him?
At the office that issues ID cards.
- Are you sure it's him?
-I am sure.
I took a quick look and everything.
Claudio Ferraz Gomes da Silva
Is he to be taken out?
Is Bobbi there with you?
No. he stayed at the cinema.
Better.
Take him out.
You can count on to me.
There he is. at the payphone.
Célia Maria Tavares Correia
That guy with the red cap?
Let's go. Marcão.
I have the rest of your money.
here with me.
Hey there. big guy!
Are you bothering one of our friends?
Show us your ID card!
Man. I know who that guy is.
Of all days. I forgot my ID today.
No!
It's a gunshot!
There was a shooting there.
What a disaster!
Son of a bitch!
Don't do tomorrow. what you
can do the day after tomorrow!
Long live procrastination!
Long live collective idleness!
Did you see a man with a red cap?
That way?
Paid love is cheaper than free love!
Prevision and that thing called foresight!
Desire keeps on growing!
The future. glory. are of no value!
No matter the glory. the horizon line...
What I see is an alley!
Oh. the book. oh. the book. oh. the book!
A book to give away!
Let's go! Go. damn it. go!
Let's go!
Damn it! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go!
Help! Help! Help us. please!
Where's Arlindo?
- Did you see what happened?
- I saw.
Love is rebellious!
It can't be kept in a cage.
Needs to be free
And takes no charity!
So. take care of what's yours!
Before it's gone.
Never to return!
I am a plant.
I have roots
I am a wild animal!
I walk freely and happily.
following my destiny.
Saving up my money. which
will arrive another day!
My path must be clear!
I don't accept charity!
So. take care of yours.
before it's gone!
Marcelo.
these files can't leave this room.
All lines are busy
because of what happened.
Tell me.
your name's not Marcelo. is it?
""Animal jobs"...
Elza.
I need the passports now.
Elza...
My time in Recife is over.
Stand back!
Clear off!
CARNIVAL DEATH TOLL: 91
SOUTHERN TOURIST SHOT
AT BARBER SHOP
Motive may have been revenge.
Dani.
Yes?
Tell me.
Did you try to find out
what happened to these people?
You know I'm kind of anxious.
I tried Googling them.
but there's nothing there.
They're all pre-Google.
We need to scan the newspapers.
Yes. but that's more work.
I'm listening to Anísio.
who tried to help Armando.
you know?
You went back to the Armando case?
You were a bit shaken by it.
weren't you?
Yes. I needed a break from it.
Well...
I don't know why.
but this guy's story got to me.
Probably because
my family's from Pernambuco.
My grandfather.
who was practically my father.
I liked hearing Armando's voice
on my headphones.
He had a good voice.
MURDERED RESEARCHER
WAS ACCUSED OF CORRUPTION
Shall I take him?
Armando Solimões. 43. shot dead...
crime being treated as a hit job.
Say dad.
Thank you. bye.
- Good evening.
I'd like to see
Dr. Fernando de Melo Solimões.
He's expecting me.
Dr. Fernando.
- Flávia. right?
- Exactly.
You're donating?
I am.
How much do you weigh?
52 kilos.
Flávia?
Dr. Fernando.
Very nice to meet you.
How are you?
I was joking when I said
I'd only see you if you gave blood.
It's a good thing. though.
First time I've given blood.
You're in good hands.
Right. Rosa?
Everything is fine.
Can I see my blood?
You from Minas Gerais?
Yes. but I've lived in São Paulo
for a few years.
I wasn't really into the idea.
at first.
but I'm happy I've done this.
- Can I get this?
- Yes. please.
Thanks. Rosa.
Thank you. Rosa.
It's snacks now.
I'll get her a chocolate milk.
I know your father spent some time.
searching for an identity record
of his mother.
here in Recife. didn't he?
It's on the tapes.
You see. I don't know...
I didn't know that.
About my grandmother
on my father's side.
all I know is her name.
"Maria Aparecida dos Santos"
known as "Índia".
That's all I know.
Do you have any papers
of your grandmother?
Nothing. I never saw her.
No pictures. nothing.
No records whatsoever.
My grandfather on my father's side.
impregnated the daughter
of the family's housemaid in Bonito.
here in Pernambuco.
My grandfather was 17.
and my grandmother was 14. a child.
She was like...
She did all the housework.
She was a kind of servant...
Like...
a slave...
or an enslaved person.
I don't know...
She really was enslaved.
And my grandmother was known as...
Everyone called her "Índia".
just "Índia".
And my father. her son...
Everyone said he was
a "handsome" boy.
So she was "Índia".
and my father was "Handsome".
You see?
It's not easy.
I find it so hard
to speak about this...
I'm doing it because you insisted.
You're really something else.
you sent emails. you called...
But it's hard for me
to speak about this.
But...
What about your father Armando?
My father Armando
was born of that relationship
between a 17-year-old boy
and a 14-year-old girl.
And...
The wealthy side of the family...
"Wealthy" so to speak...
That is. my grandfather's family.
They took my father to raise him.
and his mother couldn't do anything.
she was a child.
Listen. here's the thing.
I work for a private university.
that paid me to transcribe the tapes.
they got from that archive.
And now they want the tapes back.
they feel there's
sensitive information on them.
So they asked for all the tapes back.
But that doesn't really matter.
because I made copies
of all the recordings.
I said you're something else.
didn't I?
But also the reason I came is.
I appreciated hearing
your father's testimony.
Hearing people talk about him.
Flávia...
How did those recordings reach you?
Through the daughter of Sara Guebert.
whom your father knew as "Elza"
when he was under persecution.
Flávia. I won't go into that.
Okay?
That's all right.
In fact...
I've brought this.
with all the recordings I copied.
Everything I got.
is in here.
Your father's voice is here.
and people talking about him.
It's yours.
You can keep it
and do whatever you like with it.
You know. my grandfather Alexandre...
who brought me up
and who I consider to be my father...
He told me that...
He was always telling this story.
When my father...
The day my father died.
I was showered and ready.
I'd put on my favorite clothes
and I stood there.
outside the house.
waiting for him.
The plan was
he'd come to pick me up.
I honestly don't remember that.
Like. someone tells you something
and you create a memory.
But I don't know if I remember that day.
I am talking to you about him.
but I don't...
The truth is. I don't remember him.
The truth is.
you remember my father.
more than I do.
I don't think I helped you much.
It's all right.
It was great to meet you.
This trip to Recife is also
an opportunity for me.
to meet some relatives.
I only know through the phone.
You have family here?
My grandfather is from here.
He worked for a family
not far from here. on Chora
Menino ("Cry. Boy") Square.
I love that. "Chora Menino".
Great name for a square.
I've heard about this place
since I was little.
Quite a coincidence.
me ending up here.
You want a coincidence?
When I was little.
I really wanted
to see that movie "Jaws".
- I know it.
- You do?
My grandfather would not let me.
the poster alone scared me.
the shark with that huge mouth.
He was a projectionist
at the São Luiz cinema.
One day. he took me to see it.
Out of the blue.
I got ready and went.
From the day I saw the movie.
the shark nightmares were gone.
Here's the coincidence.
Guess where I saw the movie.
I don't know any local cinemas.
Right here.
This used to be a cinema?
The Boa Vista cinema.
where I saw "Jaws".
- It's changed a lot.
- It has.
It's a different place.
And now I work here.
- Your car?
- It's here.
Thank you. Fernando.
Thank you.
THE SECRET AGENT
The production and distribution
of this film were financed from
public and private funds.
creating more than 1300
direct and indirect jobs.
Moreover. culture is not only
part of a country's identity.
it is also an industry.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm